Static:

Static member is a menber of class which is not associated to any instance of the class but to the class iteself.
We can use static member without creating the instance of class, we can call it by class name.
Static keyword is used to create class level variable.

Java Static Variable:
Its a class variable, doesn't belong to the instance/object of that class. belongs to class itself.
These are shared among all the instances of that class so its not Thread Safe.
Access: ClassName.variableName(if its public)
We always use final with static variable for constants.

Java Static method:
Static Method : can access only static variables of the class or invoke only static methods.
The main() method which is an entry point for java program is static.

Java Static block:
We can make group of statements static(block).
these gets executed as soon as class gets loaded.
Canoot access non-static variables in static block.
Mainly used for initializing static vriables.
Can have multiple static blocks in a single class.
Static block is executed only once when class is loaded.



Java Static Class(Nested Classes)
Only inner classes can be made static not the top most class...


Java Static Import

from java 1.5 we can import static members to avoid using class reference in the imported class...
We have to use import static XXXXX.XXX

Note: Static keyword cannot be used for Top Level Classes only inner classes(Nested Classes).

------------------------------------------------------------

Why public static void main in java

Basically this is the line from where java execution starts from.
Public is access specifier--> which will make this method accessable from outside the class too...
static because this method has to be called without creating the instance of the class.
So without static keyword on main method,your program will compile but not execute. Run time error.
void simply says main method will not return any value.
Java compiler will compile all classes which do not have main method and java interpreter starts running the application from main method.
if no main method if found run time error saying no main method found.

--------------------------------------------------------------